# Applications

## Broken authentication, poor session management
An adversary impersonates an identity on the server, can possibly deface it, or compromise the server. Unprotected session tokens can lead to hijacking of an active session.
* Credentials in plain text.
* Weak credentials that can be guessed.
* Session IDs exposed in the URL
* Session IDs vulnerable to session fixation attacks
* Session IDs which do not timeout, expire, and are not rotated
* Sending credentials and session IDs over unencrypted connections

## SQL Injection Attacks
An adversary exploits code in a web application in order to gain access to the database, usually by merely tweaking the URL to include malicious commands. Can lead to site defaction and/or stolen and altered information, and even to server compromise.
* Delimiter characters such as the single quote (‘) or the double quote (“) can be used

## XSS Cross Site Scripting (XSS)
[XSS Cross Site Scripting (XSS)](../../../trees/web-hacking/Cross-Site-Scripting-(XSS).md) is client-side attack in which an adversary injects malicious code to gain control of sensitive page content, user sessions, or the web browser itself. JS, ActiveX, VBScript, Flash, cookies, and even HTML and CSS can deliver XSS payloads. See the [portswigger cheatsheet](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting/cheat-sheet) for vectors (regularly updated). XSS uses brute force to hijack sessions and redirects them to malicious sites. It can bypass access control policies (ACL) to elevate priviliges to administrative access and can be used to gain information about a web server and user accounts.
* Stored XSS (Persistent or Type I) - user input is stored on the target server (database, message forum, visitor log, comment field, etc.) and can be retrieved from the web application without the data being made safe to render. 
* Reflected XSS (Non-Persistent or Type II) - user input is immediately returned by a web application in an error message, search result, or any other response that includes some or all of the input provided by the user as part of the request, without that data being made safe to render, and without permanently storing the user provided data. 
* DOM Based XSS (Type-0) - the entire tainted data flow from source to sink takes place in the browser (the source of the data is in the DOM, the sink is also in the DOM) and the data flow never leaves the browser. The source could be the URL of the page or an element of the HTML, and the sink a sensitive method call that causes the execution of the malicious data.

Server-side XSS occurs when untrusted user supplied data is included in a response generated by the server. The source of this data could be from the request, or from a stored location. Both Reflected Server XSS and Stored Server XSS are possible. The browser just renders the response and executes the code.

## Insecure direct object references

An adversary gains access to resources on the server by modifying a parameter that points to an object on the server.
* Insufficient authorisation checks

## Cross-site request forgery (CSRF)
In a [Cross-site request forgery (CSRF)](../../../trees/web-hacking/Cross-Site-Request-Forgery-(CSRF).md), an adversary forges a HTTP request on behalf of an already authenticated and logged in user by inserting code to force an action. CSRF exploits how the target website manages authentication. Using a legitimate user’s authenticated session, the adversary can launch any requests (on behalf of the logged in user) to the vulnerable website, which will execute the adversaries' command.
* [Unauthorised actions can be transmitted from a browser to the website](https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/topic/cross-site-request-forgery-csrf-vulnerabilities/) 

